:sparkles: Add  fake  K8s API server (#1610)
metal3-io/cluster-api-provider-metal3: hack/fake-apiserver/README.md

# Fake API server

Fake API server is a tool running inside a kubernetes cluster,
and generates "fake" k8s api server endpoints on demand.

These endpoints respond to any request normally responded
by the apiserver of target clusters created in a normal CAPI
workflow. They can, hence, be used, for e.g., to represent the clusters
created by CAPM3 using fake hardware so that CAPI confirms that
the cluster was provisioned successfully.

## How to use

You can build the `fake-api-server` image that is suitable for
your local environment with

```shell
make build-fake-api-server
```

The result is an image with label `quay.io/metal3-io/fake-apiserver:<your-arch-name>`

Alternatively, you can also build a custom image with

```shell
cd hack/fake-apiserver
docker build -t <custom tag> .
```

For local tests, it's normally needed to load the image into the cluster.
For e.g. with `minikube`

```shell
docker image save -o /tmp/api-server.tar <image-name>
minikube image load /tmp/api-server.tar
```

Now you can deploy this container to the cluster, for e.g. with a deployment

```api-server-deployment.yaml

> ---

Reviewer: format YAML the same as standalone YAML

# Metal3 Fake Kubernetes API server system (Metal3-FKAS)

## FKAS

Metal3-FKAS tool for testing CAPI-related projects.

> When being asked, it generates new fake kubernetes api endpoint, that responds

Author: I think "When being asked" sounds more natural.

to all typical requests that CAPI sends to a newly provisioned cluster.

> Despite being developed for Metal3 ecosystem, FKAS is provider-free. It can be adopted

Author: Yeah, that's the idea. All metal3-specific logics are in "metal3-fkas-reconciler", I suppose the "metal3-fkas" is provider free.

kubectl port-forward pod/${fkas_pod_name} 3333:3333 2>/dev/null&
```

Now, you can generate a fake API server endpoint by sending
a GET request to the fake API server. But first, let's generate some needed certificates

```shell
openssl req -x509 -subj "/CN=Kubernetes API" -new -newkey rsa:2048 \
  -nodes -keyout "/tmp/ca.key" -sha256 -days 3650 -out "/tmp/ca.crt"
openssl req -x509 -subj "/CN=ETCD CA" -new -newkey rsa:2048 \
  -nodes -keyout "/tmp/etcd.key" -sha256 -days 3650 -out "/tmp/etcd.crt"
```

```shell
caKeyEncoded=$(cat /tmp/ca.key | base64 -w 0)
caCertEncoded=$(cat /tmp/ca.crt | base64 -w 0)
etcdKeyEncoded=$(cat /tmp/etcd.key | base64 -w 0)
etcdCertEncoded=$(cat /tmp/etcd.crt | base64 -w 0)
namespace=<cluster-namespace>
cluster_name=<cluster-name>

cluster_endpoint=$(curl -X POST "localhost:3333/register" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{
  "resource": "'$namespace/$cluster_name'",
  "caKey": "'$caKeyEncoded'",
  "caCert": "'$caCertEncoded'",
  "etcdKey": "'$etcdKeyEncoded'",
  "etcdCert": "'$etcdCertEncoded'"
}')
```

The fake API server will return a response with the ip and port of the newly
generated api server. For example:

```json
{

>   Host: "10.244.0.83",

Reviewer: That is not valid JSON.

```suggestion
  "Host": "10.244.0.83",
```

  name: ${cluster}-etcd
  namespace: ${namespace}
type: kubernetes.io/tls
data:
  tls.crt: ${etcdCertEncoded}
  tls.key: ${etcdKeyEncoded}
EOF

kubectl -n ${namespace} apply -f /tmp/${cluster}-etcd-secrets.yaml
```

A new cluster can be provisioned by injecting the host and port we
got from FKAS to the cluster template provided by a CAPI infrastructure
provider. For e.g., with CAPM3 that can be done as followed:

```shell
host=$(echo ${cluster_endpoints} | jq -r ".Host")
port=$(echo ${cluster_endpoints} | jq -r ".Port")

# Injecting the new api address into the cluster template by
# exporting these env vars
export CLUSTER_APIENDPOINT_HOST="${host}"
export CLUSTER_APIENDPOINT_PORT="${port}"

clusterctl generate cluster "${cluster}" \
  --from "${CLUSTER_TEMPLATE}" \
  --target-namespace "${namespace}" > /tmp/${cluster}-cluster.yaml
kubectl apply -f /tmp/${cluster}-cluster.yaml
```

After the cluster is created, CAPI will expect that information like node name
and provider ID is registered in the API server. Since our API server doesn't
live inside the node, we will need to feed the info to it, by sending another
POST request to `/updateNode` endpoint:

```shell

> curl -X POST "localhost:3333/updateNode" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{

Reviewer 2: PUT for RESTFUL API when update resources

Author: Done

# CAPM3 Fake API server

Fake API server is a tool running inside a kubernetes cluster,

> and "generates" in-memory api server endpoints on demand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and "generates" in-memory k8s apiserver endpoints on demand.
```
Maybe like this? Then it is even more clear that it fakes target cluster k8s apiservers?

These endpoints can be used, for e.g., to represent the clusters
created by CAPM3 using fake hardware so that CAPI confirms that
the cluster was provisioned successfully.

## How to use

> After building the container image and deploy it to a kubernetes cluster,

Reviewer 3: A minimal example of how to do this would be very helpful.
```bash
docker build ...
kind load image ... # or docker push
kubectl create deploy ...
kubectl create service ... # or get IP of pod
kubectl port-forward ...
```

you can generate a fake API server endpoint by sending
a GET request to the fake API server, with the following params:

```shell
"namespace": namespace in which the cluster will be created
"cluster_name": name of the cluster
"caKey": generated CA key
"caCert": generated CA cert
"etcdKey": generated etcd key
"etcdCert": generated etcd cert
```

```shell

> curl <pod_ip>:<port>/register?resource=<namespace>/<cluster_name>&caKey=<caKeyEncoded>&caCert=<caCertEncoded>&etcdKey=<etcdKeyEncoded>&etcdCert=<etcdCertEncoded>"

Reviewer 3: An example with everything written out would be useful here

```

The fake API server will return a response with the ip and port of the newly
generated api server. This can be fed to a CAPI infrastructure provider
(for e.g. CAPM3) to create a cluster.

> After the cluster is created, additional information can be added to the

Reviewer 3: What additional information? If I understand the code correctly, it is for adding nodes and nothing else. If so, can you just write that instead so it is clear what this can be used for

> # CAPM3 Fake API server

Reviewer: So this says CAPM3 Fake API server, L4 points to CAPIM (which is coherent and refer to a provider), but L5 says "kubernetes servers" and also the directory name is "fake-apiserver" which both associate to "k8s apiserver". 

So based on that readme, I have no idea if this is faking the k8s apiserver or CAPM3 or what. Please reword/rename the readme and the directory so its clear what it is faking.
